---
sidebar_position: 1
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---

# Fabric Modding Tutorials

These pages contain tutorials on most aspects of modding with Fabric
Loader and in most cases Fabric API. A list of all topics can be found
on the sidebar, ranging from blocks and items, to world generation and
custom entities.

For additional help, feel free to join the [Fabric Discord
Server](https://discord.gg/RyPwrj5TDk) and ask questions in the channels
in the mod development category. However, keep in mind that everyone
that helps out in these channels is working on a voluntary basis, and
there may not be someone available to help when you post your question.
If you want to maximize the chance you get a good answer, [How To Ask
Questions The Smart
Way](http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html) is a good guide
to read.

## Prerequisites

It's strongly recommended to learn Java before diving into the modding
world (especially if you don't have prior programming experience).
Minecraft, in its codebase, and mods, using Fabric API, use more
advanced Java concepts like lambdas, generics and polymorphism. If you
don't know all of these concepts, you may have some difficulties
modding. Here are some online resources that will help learning Java.

 * JetBrains Academy: https://www.jetbrains.com/academy/
 * Codecademy: https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-java
 * University of Helsinki: https://java-programming.mooc.fi/
 * Basic Java Tutorials: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/
 * Introduction to Programming using Java by David J. Eck: http://math.hws.edu/javanotes/

## Creating Your First Mod

If you have never created a mod using Fabric before, these pages are
useful and guide you through the bare basics of modding with Fabric:

 * [[tutorial:setup|Setting Up A Development Environment]]
 * [[tutorial:blocks|Adding A Block]]
 * [[tutorial:items|Adding An Item]]
 * [[tutorial:mixin_introduction|An Introduction To Mixins]]

## Community Libraries and Guides

The Fabric Wiki isn't the only place where you can learn aspects of
modding, checkout these pages which contain useful external guides that
can to apply to modding with Fabric, and modding in general:

 * [[tutorial:libraries|Community Libraries]]
 * [[tutorial:list_of_useful_gists|Community Guides]]

<!-- If you prefer active learning, learning by creating - [checkout
minedocs, a set of community curated guides for
fabric.](https://docs.mineblock11.dev/) -->

### YouTube Tutorials

If reading is not your thing, checkout these YouTube playlists:

  - [Kaupenjoe's Fabric Modding
    Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKGarocXCE1EeLZggaXPJaARxnAbUD8Y_)
  - [Techovision's Modding
    Tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e37IMIwB5BE&list=PLDhiRTZ_vnoV0O_V_hSf2Z-GWEwYK1RlC)

*Fabric is not liable for the content or opinions presented on these
playlists. These playlists may contain out of date content.*
